the Tennessee and Poland, concerning activities in your nation's capital, and to bring you
special features that people will fund for the events.
For the past week, Washington has been compared to the past, but it is a common
challenge.
Somewhat similar to what it is for the fellow upstairs to rapidly use any minute to expect
the world of games that has characterized Washington's past eight months, the night
through the silence once again.
The House of Representatives in recent and will continue to be a process in the former
first.
The Senate took a breather for a week, over the Labor Day weekend, and returned to Wednesday.
It devoted most of the remaining week to debate on the reciprocal trade agreements
and programs.
The action the Senate takes on this program is of a special interest to any nations.
One of our most revered citizens of all times, Judge Cardell Paul, is the original author
of the reciprocal trade program.
He has defeated the bar scene plan in the early 1930s when he serves our Secretary of State.
The current debate is concerned with the further extension of the whole plan, and there remains
a little doubt that the Senate will go to extend the program, to extend the program, to
the House voting over well, to extend the trade program some seven months ago.
The major issue is whether Congress will continue or eliminate the peril point for vision
of the trade agreements program.
Now let's take a look at this complex provision of the law and try to break it down into simple
terms.
The initial thought or specific trade agreements plan authorised the President of the United
States to negotiate trade agreements with other nations, which would work to the mutual benefit
of all concerns.
This meant that the United States departed from its usual course of protecting its own products
by means of a high protected territory in force.
The Republican-Aviate Congress amended this law requiring the U.S. tariff commission
to notify the President when a point was reached in the concessions we granted other nations
in this agreement, which the Commission considered perilous to our own economy, thus the name
Thereafter, the President would be called upon to explain these agreements in advance, and
then, broadly, I'm in such red tape that the program will be seriously crippled.
In other words, ladies and gentlemen, this issue involves the aging arguments between the
Republicans and the Democrats.
Shall we have a high protected territory and export more than we implore for a Republican
philosophy, or shall we engage in a health-boost-too-way trade with other governments in a chief
free payment of our vast loans abroad as the Democrats think we should?
Senator Keith Barber favors free trade and elimination of the perilous point provision.
This is an important but complicated matter.
It is good sense that the more we trade with other people, the better we will come to understand
them, and the better they will understand us, the better understanding improves our chances
for our lasting peace.
The entire world, friends and four-life, watched with manifest interest, the conference of
American, British and Canadian fiscal experts here in Washington during the week.
It is no secret that Britain is in serious economic crisis.
Some predict bankruptcy of her within a year, so unless her shortage of dollars is really
unlikely that the United States will agree.
It is likely that the United States will agree to stockpile more British colonial products
to tend rubber in the light that we will relax our customers' requirements to make it easier
for Britain to sell here, and that private capital will be encouraged to develop enterprises
in a British Empire.
Notification is expected to be made on the proposal that America really written of her role as
banker and promoter in the Middle East, India and Southeast Asia.
And those in the know say that devaluation of the dollar or any such radical step will
not be considered at this time.
Written the experts say is in much to be to be pulled out overnight.
Well, the B36 investigations continue.
This time it's the Navy that's investigating.
Trying to find out just who practiced her canary, spreading false rumors about these huge
claims affecting this and the circumstances of its adoption as the principal offensive weapon
of their course.
A lot of plus will be raised, but we have seen many investigations in this session, all
of which, thus far, have fallen flat so far as the effective findings are concerned.
And then there was a tip between the Secretary of Defense and Senator Albert Thomas.
It seems that Senator Thomas requested Mr. Secretary Lewis Johnson to provide his committee
with a plan to make an inspection trip abroad.
Secretary replied it would be more economical for the group to go about commercial airlines.
Senator didn't think so and called upon the Secretary or reports of traveling in government
planes on the part of members of the executive branch, as if to say, with the executive to do it,
so can the legislative branch.
But when temper is at cool to bid, the matter was settled to the satisfaction of all concerned.
And the Thomas committee got its claim for its official travel.
Now for the remainder of our time, we should like to answer in narrative form.
Some of the questions we are asked from time to time, when starting procedures here in your office.
The purpose of this program, as you know, is to bring your senators out this closer to the people
or a better understanding of what is done and more important why it is done.
Of course time does not permit a full discourse on the subject, even if we knew all the answers,
which we do not. But having a fair refresh on the Washington scene a few months ago,
we found the situation a little different than we expected in some particular,
and believe you will be interested in them also.
In the first place, it could be your view that all our most of the work of Congress
takes place on the floor of the send in the house.
This we find and beg to report to the smart from the banks.
The real understood business activity and hard work is done in committees.
The two bodies of Congress usually meet at noon, but the mornings are filled with committee meetings and hearings.
It is there that all the boiling down, polishing up and perfecting our office.
That is, if the proposed bill is ever actionally acted on at all.
Most bills, which are introduced, are in committee.
The personnel of these committees is designated by the steering committee.
Assignments remain on the basis of seniority and unrequested to the various members.
Most senators have two committee assignments.
11 of the 96, including Senator Keepover, are on three committees.
Sometimes all three of these committees will be meeting at the same time,
which makes for some hurry to hop in about the place to place on the part of the usually dignified senators.
When a bill is introduced, it is referred to the appropriate committee.
If this sponsor presses the committee, the bill is currently considered from every angle.
On occasions, a subcommittee is appointed to hear witnesses on both sides of the question.
Reports are made and eventually committee reduces testimony on the bill to writing.
And a printed report of the committee's findings and recommendations,
a company's bill of an industry reported out for passage,
which are the subjects of the base on the floor of the Senate.
Every senator has available a wealth of information about the bill,
and it is on the basis of these hearings and reports and the mail from back home
that he determines how he will vote.
Once reported out favorably, the bill is placed on the calendar and awaits its regular term.
Although the majority leader is giving a great deal of leeway under Senate rules,
in determining in what order legislation will be considered.
Procedures in the two houses of Congress are different.
In the House of Representatives, there are 435 members,
and the time a bill may be debated is limited.
The House resolves itself into a committee of the polls to consider the bill.
A Tennessean representative, Jerry Cooper of Darsford,
is chairman of the committee of the whole and usually presides at these deliberations.
After this preliminary discussion, the House then goes into session and does officially,
but it has just done unofficial.
Another native of Tennessee, Speaker Sam Raver, who was born in Rome County,
presides over this session.
In the Senate debate is virtually unlimited.
Usually a bill may not be taken, so long as any of the 96 senators,
desires to be heard or heard further, and sometimes on and on and off,
deliberate organized attempts on the part of a few senators to postpone and unfavourable votes
by continuing debate is what is known as a filibuster.
The president of the Senate, of course, is the vice president of the United States.
And in his absence, the president of Pro Tempere is the official presiding officer.
Senator Kenneth D. McHeller, Tennessee is the current president of Pro Tempere.
When a vote is about to be taken, or a forum called in,
signals sound all over Capitol Hill.
And the congressman still has plenty of time to register his vote.
The cause it requires about 45 minutes to call the House roll.
The senators are less fortunate. They're only 96 senators.
And they misguided from their office in the midi room,
to the Senate floor to be recorded.
In eight of this, a tram runs rapidly between the Senate office building
and the Senate floor in the Capitol.
Under the street, in elevators, for senators only are available.
Like there's not, the senator has determined days before how he will vote.
Unless he is participating in the debate, it's probable that he will be busy elsewhere
by the discussion on the floors and the progress.
When the Senate photos taken, if the bill is passed,
goes over to the House for similar consideration.
Sometimes the two houses differ in the form of the bill passed.
When this occurs, a conference is necessary between committees from each House
to iron out the differences.
Each House must then agree to the report of the conference
and finalize the bill in identical language.
In addition to the presiding officers, the two major parties in both houses
elect a majority leader and minority leader and majority and minority equips.
The task of the quilt is to equip and line his party members on a vote along party lines
and to be sure those who support his party are present when a vote is taken.
The quilt acts as his party leader in the absence of the majority or minority leader as the case may be.
The majority quilt over in the House is yet another tenissian representative J. Percy Priest of Nashville.
As you can see, the tenissians play a very important role in your Congress.
Another member of the delegation, representative Tom Murray of Jackson,
is chairman of the House committee on post offices in civil service.
At the present, because of extensive Paris to the Senate and House changes,
visitors galleries are not available, but ordinarily they are.
If you visited a section of one of the houses, however,
it is improbable that you would see either Vice President Barkley or Speaker Raven Presider.
This is done ordinarily by various members to assure that proceedings are in accordance with the rules.
The parliamentarians present it all times to advise the occupant of the chair how to rule when a point of order is raised from the floor.
Following it then goes to the White House for approval or disprove of the president.
He makes sign it into law, allowing it to become law without this signature or veto it.
The Congress by sufficient majority may pass a bill into law following your presidential veto.
As you will see readily, the enactment of a law by your Congress requires a great deal of time and careful study.
There are times when the new government can never accomplish the bill of all the duties of parliamentary procedures.
At times, the people become provoked with the loan delay, but all in all, the more you are around Capitol Hill,
the more you are impressed with the sincerity of your legislative talks.
They all have the same motives in mind, but most part all of them will piece, prosperity, and happiness for all the people.
They differ as to how these ends shall be attained.
A democracy moves slowly, deliberately, but when we are prompted to criticize and complain, we should never lose sight of the fact.
The grinding government of the United States is the most successful, the mind of mortal man as yet devised.
And with the freezing pressure, we brought you up your public service administration to keep you clean.
On the right of the streets of this time, the driving needs, safety, and the spread of your ass is keepover, saying that's all for now from your center of his office in Washington.